---
title: "Deep ensembles based on Stochastic Activation Selection for Polyp Segmentation"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% import "_macros.html" as macros %}

# C2 - Deep ensembles based on Stochastic Activation Selection for Polyp Segmentation

#### Alessandra Lumini, Loris Nanni, Gianluca Maguolo

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=NJcszyl19PN">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=NJcszyl19PN">Reviews</a>

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        Semantic segmentation has a wide array of applications ranging from medical-image analysis, scene understanding, autonomous driving and robotic navigation. This work deals with medical image segmentation and in particular with accurate polyp detection and segmentation during colonoscopy examinations. Several convolutional neural network architectures have been proposed to effectively deal with this task and with the problem of segmenting objects at different scale input. The basic architecture in image segmentation consists of an encoder and a decoder: the first uses convolutional filters to extract features from the image, the second is responsible for generating the final output. In this work, we compare some variant of the DeepLab architecture obtained by varying the decoder backbone. We compare several decoder architectures, including ResNet, Xception, EfficentNet, MobileNet and we perturb their layers by substituting ReLU activation layers with other functions. The resulting methods are used to create deep ensembles which are shown to be very effective. Our experimental evaluations show that our best ensemble produces good segmentation results by achieving high evaluation scores with a dice coefficient of  0.884, and a mean Intersection over Union (mIoU) of 0.818 for the Kvasir-SEG dataset. To improve reproducibility and research efficiency the MATLAB source code used for this research is available at GitHub: https://github.com/LorisNanni.
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
         Wednesday 7th July<br>C1-9 (short): Endoscopy and Validation Studies - 16:45 - 17:30 (UCT+2)
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

[% / %]


---

{{ macros.cloudflare_presentation('143be009291dc94dc5c41d6f3f96849b', '/slides/short_24_poster.pdf', 720, 450) }}
