---
title: "SWNet: Surgical Workflow Recognition with Deep Convolutional Network"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% from "_macros.html" import html_presentation, button, teaser, video %}

# C5 - SWNet: Surgical Workflow Recognition with Deep Convolutional Network

#### Bokai Zhang, Amer Ghanem, Alexander Simes, Henry Choi, Andrew Yoo, Andrew Min

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="/proceedings/zhang21c.pdf">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=g1sESqlP214">Reviews</a>
{{ teaser('') }}

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        Surgical workflow recognition has been playing an essential role in computer-assisted interventional systems for modern operating rooms. In this paper, we present a computer vision-based method named SWNet that focuses on utilizing spatial information and temporal information from the surgical video to achieve surgical workflow recognition. As the first step, we utilize Interaction-Preserved Channel-Separated Convolutional Network (IP-CSN) to extract features that contain spatial information and local temporal information from the surgical video through segments. Secondly, we train a Multi-Stage Temporal Convolutional Network (MS-TCN) with those extracted features to capture global temporal information from the full surgical video. Finally, by utilizing Prior Knowledge Noise Filtering (PKNF), prediction noise from the output of MS-TCN is filtered. We evaluate SWNet for Sleeve Gastrectomy surgical workflow recognition. SWNet achieves 90% frame-level accuracy and reaches a weighted Jaccard Score of 0.8256. This demonstrates that SWNet has considerable potential to solve the surgical workflow recognition problem.
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
         Wednesday 7th July<br>C1-9 (short): Endoscopy and Validation Studies - 16:45 - 17:30 (UCT+2)
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

[% / %]


---

{{ html_presentation('/videos/full_27_video.mp4', '/slides/full_27_poster.pdf', 720, 450) }}