---
title: "An MRF-UNet Product of Experts for Image Segmentation"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% from "_macros.html" import presentation, button, teaser %}

# I9 - An MRF-UNet Product of Experts for Image Segmentation

#### Mikael Brudfors, Yaël Balbastre, John Ashburner, Geraint Rees, Parashkev Nachev, Sebastien Ourselin, M. Jorge Cardoso

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="">Proceedings</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=PoIV8EXQDjn">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=PoIV8EXQDjn">Reviews</a>
{{ teaser('') }}

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        While convolutional neural networks (CNNs) trained by back-propagation have seen unprecedented success at semantic  segmentation tasks, they are known to struggle on out-of-distribution data. Markov random fields (MRFs) on the other hand, encode simpler distributions over labels that, although less flexible than UNets, are less prone to over-fitting. In this paper, we propose to fuse both strategies by computing the product of distributions of a UNet and an MRF. As this product is intractable, we solve for an approximate distribution using an iterative mean-field approach. The resulting MRF-UNet is trained jointly by back-propagation. Compared to other works using conditional random fields (CRFs), the MRF has no dependency on the imaging data, which should allow for less over-fitting. We show on 3D neuroimaging data that this novel network improves generalisation to out-of-distribution samples. Furthermore, it allows the overall number of parameters to be reduced while preserving high accuracy. These results suggest that a classic MRF smoothness prior can allow for less over-fitting when principally integrated into a CNN model. Our implementation is available at https://github.com/balbasty/nitorch.
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
         Friday 9th July<br>I4-12 (short): Transfer Learning and Domain Adaptation - 13:45 - 14:30 (UCT+2)
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

[% / %]


---

