---
title: "Self-supervised Out-of-distribution Detection for Cardiac CMR Segmentation"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% from "_macros.html" import presentation, button, teaser %}

# J9 - Self-supervised Out-of-distribution Detection for Cardiac CMR Segmentation

#### Camila Gonzalez, Anirban Mukhopadhyay

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="">Proceedings</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=E5CpgfwHBoC">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=E5CpgfwHBoC">Reviews</a>
{{ teaser('') }}

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        The segmentation of cardiac structures in Cine Magnetic Resonance imaging (CMR) plays an important role in monitoring ventricular function, and many deep learning solutions have been introduced that successfully automate this task. Yet due to variabilities in the CMR acquisition process, images from different centers or acquisition protocols differ considerably. This causes deep learning models to fail silently. It is therefore crucial to identify out-of-distribution (OOD) samples for which the trained model is unsuitable. For models with a self-supervised proxy task, we propose a simple method to identify OOD samples that does not require adapting the model architecture or access to a separate OOD dataset during training. As the performance of self-supervised tasks can be assessed without ground truth information, it indicates during test time when a sample differs from the training distribution. The proposed method combines a voxel-wise uncertainty estimate with the self-supervision information. Our approach is validated across three CMR datasets and two different proxy tasks. We find that it is more effective at detecting OOD samples than state-of-the-art post-hoc OOD detection and uncertainty estimation approaches.
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
         Friday 9th July<br>J1-9 (short): Unsupervised and Representation Learning - 13:45 - 14:30 (UCT+2)
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

[% / %]


---

