---
title: "Whole-Body Soft-Tissue Lesion Tracking and Segmentation in Longitudinal CT Imaging Studies"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% from "_macros.html" import html_presentation, button, teaser, video %}

# A1 - Whole-Body Soft-Tissue Lesion Tracking and Segmentation in Longitudinal CT Imaging Studies

#### Alessa Hering, Felix Peisen, Teresa Amaral, Sergios Gatidis, Thomas Eigentler, Ahmed Othman, Jan Hendrik Moltz

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="">Proceedings</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=hzbuHGhU02Z">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=hzbuHGhU02Z">Reviews</a>
{{ teaser('') }}

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        In follow-up CT examinations of cancer patients, therapy success is evaluated by estimating the change in tumor size. This process is time-consuming and error-prone. We present a pipeline that automates the segmentation and measurement of matching lesions, given a point annotation in the baseline lesion. First, a region around the point annotation is extracted, in which a deep-learning-based segmentation of the lesion is performed. Afterward, a registration algorithm finds the corresponding image region in the follow-up scan and the convolutional neural network segments lesions inside this region. In the final step, the corresponding lesion is selected. We evaluate our pipeline on clinical follow-up data comprising 125 soft-tissue lesions from 43 patients with metastatic melanoma. Our pipeline succeeded for $96\%$ of the baseline and $80\%$ of the follow-up lesions, showing that we have laid the foundation for an efficient quantitative follow-up assessment in clinical routine.
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
         Wednesday 7th July<br>A1-3 (long): Segmentation - 13:00 - 13:30 (UCT+2)
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

[% / %]


---

{{ video('https://midl2021.kervadec.science/contents/full_12_video.mp4') }}