---
title: "Radiographic Assessment of CVC Malpositioning: How can AI best support clinicians?"
page_class: "paper"
---

{% from "_macros.html" import html_presentation, button, teaser, video %}

# G3 - Radiographic Assessment of CVC Malpositioning: How can AI best support clinicians?

#### Lasse Hansen, Malte Sieren, Malte Hobe, Axel Saalbach, Heinrich Schulz, Jörg Barkhausen, Mattias P Heinrich

[% .details %]
<a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".abstract" data-level="3">Show abstract</a>
- <a class="toggle_visibility" data-selector=".schedule" data-level="3">Show schedule</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/pdf?id=ImcP8kkqtfZ">PDF</a>
- <a href="https://openreview.net/forum?id=ImcP8kkqtfZ">Reviews</a>
{{ teaser('') }}

<p>
    <span class="abstract">
        The malpositioning of central venous catheters (CVCs) is a common technical complication that is usually diagnosed on post-procedure chest X-rays (CXRs). If the misplaced CVC remains undetected, it can lead to serious health consequences for the patient. Interpreting CXRs at a large scale in everyday clinical practice is time consuming and can create delays in the repositioning of the CVC. A computer-assisted assessment of post-procedure CXRs can help to prioritise cases and reduce human errors in stressful situations by objectifying decisions. However, final assessments must always be made by the clinicians, which is why the algorithmic support needs to be comprehensible.Since AI models are not yet able to detect catheter maplpositons with highest accuracy, the focus must be on efficient support in everyday clinical practice. In this work, we evaluate three different AI models, particularly with regard to the relationship between classification accuracy and the degree of explainability. Our results show how helpful it is to incorporate explicit clinical knowledge into deep learning-based models and give us promising research directions for a planned large scale patient study.
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide abstract</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

<p>
    <span class="schedule">
         Thursday 8th July<br>G1-9 (short): Interpretability and Explainable AI - 16:45 - 17:30 (UCT+2)
        <br>
        <span class="actions"><a class="toggle_visibility" data-level="2">Hide schedule</a></span>
    </span>
</p>

[% / %]


---

{{ html_presentation('https://midl2021.kervadec.science/contents/short_126_video.mp4', 'https://midl2021.kervadec.science/contents/short_126_poster (2).pdf', 720, 450) }}